What comes to your mind when you hear the word dishonesty?
Maybe you think of Satan the father of the lie
Or an aniahs in his wife comes to your mind. They lost their lives because of lying
We do not want to imitate such ones. We avoid lying
Is that though as far as our honesty goes?
Our Holy God Jehovah wants us to be holy as well and that is why He urged the ancient Israelites
not to deceive others as mentioned in Leviticus 19, verse 11
Does this not add some color to honesty?
This honesty includes and please take note of this definition
Intentionally leading someone to a wrong conclusion
For example, by twisting the truth or by
Providing only certain details we endanger our peace with others
Why can we say so?
How does this honesty wreck peace?
Peace and a peaceful relationship are built on trust
Trusting someone makes you feel safe and secure, puts you at ease
There is no peace without trust
How do we develop trust?
Trust is the result of spending time together
Speaking the truth with one another
We trust people that act unselfishly and do not use crooked speech as the Bible puts it
If someone deceived us only once or was dishonest in another way
We might start to question everything they say
One single act of dishonesty may be enough
It can ruin their reputation as bad as this is
This honesty has the potential to create even greater damage
This honesty can be compared with a highly contagious virus
This honesty breeds this honesty
People who have contact with deceitful dishonet person are in danger of being infected
This honesty might not only wreck one relationship
But multiple relationships putting the unity and peace of the whole group at risk
This reminds us of the relationship between Laban and Jacob and the Bible book of Genesis
Based on the agreement with Laban, Jacob worked hard for seven years in order to marry Laban's daughter Rachel
And despite this high price, that Jacob had to pay, those years seemed for him just like a few days
Sadly, instead of Rachel, he received the older daughter, Leah as wife
So now, Leah was also part of the deception
What was the result after Jacob had found out that Laban tricked him?
The trust was gone. The relationship had suffered to a great degree
This honesty wrecked the peace in those relationships
And so the following seven years of work for Rachel were bitter
And Laban's dishonesty emboldened him to continue in his course
He unfairly jained Jacob's rages ten times
He deceived Jacob
Because of Laban's dishonesty, the peace and the whole family was disrupted
Let us now continue to watch the next segment of the dramatization
We left Emily and Celia sitting in a coffee shop
Please watch carefully and notice how Emily is tempted to alter the truth
I am concerned
Concern is good
But
Is there just a little bit of Emily in there?
I thought you would understand
I think I understand your feelings
Not about Hailey
I haven't seen all her posts
There's nothing immoral is there
No
Good, that's not like her
Now, if it's the case of her being not careful, how she comes across, that's another matter
Why don't you talk to her?
Maybe
Emily, you are a beautiful, spiritual sister
You know, for years
I had a bad habit comparing myself to others
My own insecurity hurt me
And my closest friends
So, you don't think I should have spoken to Celia
Oh, I'm glad you've asked Celia about it
Tell me when you trust
What did she say?
Well, she definitely understands how I feel
Good, how about Hailey's posts?
Well, she hasn't seen everything she has out there
Hmm
She did say that
Hailey needs to be more careful
How she comes across
What did she suggest?
I should tell her that she needs to stop
But, I'm too worked up
Look
If Celia agrees that Hailey's doing something she shouldn't
You should talk to her
You'll find the right time
Thanks for understanding
Hungry
Can you say the prayer?
Sure
Jehovah, we would like to praise you for your generosity and kind
Did you notice how Emily just heard what you wanted to hear?
In talking to her husband, Jake, she painted an incomplete picture
She did not relay that Celia had no opinion about the social media posts of Hailey
And, contrary to what she told her husband, Celia did not encourage her to tell Hailey to stop
Our brothers and sisters deserve the truth
But Emily didn't relay that, did she?
She was dishonest
Something that can have a damaging effect as we will see later
Jehovah wants us to put away this peace record, this honesty
He wants us to always be truthful, even in small matters
Therefore, how do we put away this honesty?
Let us please turn to Ephesians chapter 4
Here the Apostle Paul reminds us of a reason to be honest
This is Ephesians chapter 4
And we want to read verse 25
Therefore, now that you have put away this seed, each one of you speak truth with his neighbor
Because we are members belonging to one another
Did you notice why we put away this seed and speak truth with one another?
Paul says, because we are members belonging to one another
In other words, Paul reminds us of the fact that this honesty affects others
Our brothers, our relationship with them
So then, knowing this, how can we put away this honesty?
The answer is
By considering the consequences of this honesty and honesty
This will help us to do the right thing
Now, what are the consequences of this honesty?
As we have seen in the case of Laban and Jacob, it will disrupt the peace with others
And since Jehovah hates this honesty, it will also disrupt our peace with Jehovah
On the other hand, what are the consequences of honesty?
While this honesty might seem in the moment to be the easier way out
In the long run
Honest people enable us to have good friends
They want to enjoy peace as well and therefore, they are also searching for someone they can trust
In this way, we are like
Body members belonging to one another
And even more importantly, we will enjoy a good conscience
Peace with God
Let us therefore put away this peace record dishonesty by sticking to the truth even in small things
Dear brothers and sisters, Jehovah knows that for us imperfect humans
This is not always easy
Yet he promises to help us and to bless every step we take to build trust and peace and not to wreck it
Brother Patrick LaFranca, a helper to the personnel committee will now present the next talk of this symposium
Put away peace records
Harmful gossip